Human Protein Atlas (HPA)
RRID:SCR_006710
URL: http://www.proteinatlas.org/
Description: Public database with millions of high-resolution images showing the spatial distribution of proteins in different normal human tissues and cancer types, as well as different human cell lines. The data is released together with application-specific validation performed for each antibody, including immunohistochemisty, Western blot analysis and, for a large fraction, a protein array assay and immunofluorescent based confocal microscopy. The database has been developed in a gene-centric manner with the inclusion of all human genes predicted from genome efforts. Search functionalities allow for complex queries regarding protein expression profiles, protein classes and chromosome location. Antibodies included have been analyzed using a standardized protocol in a single attempt without further efforts to optimize the procedure and therefore it cannot be excluded that certain observed binding properties are due to technical rather than biological reasons and that further optimization could result in a different outcome. Submission of antibodies: The Swedish Human Proteome Atlas (HPA) program, invites submission of antibodies from both academic and commercial sources to be included in the human protein atlas. All antibodies will be validated by the HPA-program by a standard procedure and antibodies that are accepted will be use in the tissue- profiling program to generate high-resolution immunohistochemistry images representing a wide spectrum of normal tissues and cancer types.
Methods: We used a single cell type section from the HPA to explore the expression profiles of CXCR4 in normal tissues. To accomplish this, we downloaded the relevant data and results from the website and conducted thorough analyses to present the expression patterns of CXCR4 across various tissues, along with its expression profiles within cell clusters. Cell annotation of cell clusters was used as the default setting.

References:
M. Uhlen et al., Proteomics. Tissue-based map of the human proteome. Science 347, 1260419 (2015).
M. Karlsson et al., A single-cell type transcriptomics map of human tissues. Sci Adv 7,  (2021).

PanglaoDB
RRID:SCR_022580
URL: https://panglaodb.se/
Description: Database for exploration of single cell RNA sequencing experiments from mouse and human. Collects and integrate data from multiple studies and present them through unified framework.
Methods: To analyze CXCR4 expression in PanglaoDB, researchers can start by accessing the PanglaoDB website and using the search function to find relevant datasets containing information about CXCR4 expression. The expression patterns of CXCR4 across different cell types and tissues through visualizations and data tables provided by PanglaoDB. Further analysis can be conducted using the provided data or by downloading the datasets.

References:
O. Franzen, L. M. Gan, J. L. M. Bjorkegren, PanglaoDB: a web server for exploration of mouse and human single-cell RNA sequencing data. Database (Oxford) 2019,  (2019).

 
Gene Expression Profiling Interactive Analysis (GEPIA2021)
RRID:SCR_018294 
URL: http://gepia.cancer-pku.cn
Description: Web server for cancer and normal gene expression profiling and interactive analyses. Interactive web server for analyzing RNA sequencing expression data of tumors and normal samples from TCGA and GTEx projects, using standard processing pipeline. Provides customizable functions such as tumor or normal differential expression analysis, profiling according to cancer types or pathological stages, patient survival analysis, similar gene detection, correlation analysis and dimensionality reduction analysis.
Methods: Multiple deconvolution-based analyses of CXCR4 expression in immune cells were performed using GEPIA2021. We used the sub-expression analysis tool to visualize the CXCR4 expression in each immune cell type, which determines the cell type-level differential expression of CXCR4 in immune cells. Differential expression analysis of gene expression levels was performed using ANOVA. Using the deconvolution strategy, we can unlock valuable cell type information, enabling us to investigate the relationship between cell proportions. Utilizing the deconvolution results, we can compare the proportions of various cell types and calculate and compare CXCR4 expression in bulk samples contributed by these distinct cell types.

C. Li, Z. Tang, W. Zhang, Z. Ye, F. Liu, GEPIA2021: integrating multiple deconvolution-based analysis into GEPIA. Nucleic Acids Res 49, W242-W246 (2021).

ScRNA-seq Data Portal for T cell in Pan-Cancer
URL: http://cancer-pku.cn:3838/PanC_T/
Description: An R shiny based tool used for single-cell RNA-seq data visualization and analysis. This data portal is based on framework scDVA (short for single-cell RNA-seq data visualization and analyzation). scDVA: https://github.com/liziyie/scDVA/tree/master
Methods: Single-cell transcriptomic analysis of CD8+ T cells from pan-cancer was performed based on single-cell data of tumor-infiltrating T cells (GSE156728). CD8+ T-cell metaclusters were annotated according to a previous study.

Reference:
L. Zheng et al., Pan-cancer single-cell landscape of tumor-infiltrating T cells. Science 374, abe6474 (2021).

Human Cell Landscape (HCL)
URL: https://db.cngb.org/HCL/
Description: They used single-cell RNA sequencing to determine the cell type composition of major human organs and construct a basic scheme for the human cell landscape (HCL). To allow for public access of the resource, we created a human cell landscape (HCL) website at http://bis.zju.edu.cn/HCL/ (with a mirror website for international users at https://db.cngb.org/HCL/).HCL website consists of seven web pages. 1.   Home: This page contains three sections. About describes the functions and update of the HCL website, Human tissue info gives a brief description of each organization of the sample, Microwell-seq protocol describes how Microwell-seq operates. 2.   Landscape: We analysed >700,000 single cells from >50 human tissues (2-4 replicates per tissue in general) and cultures. In a global view, the complete human tissue dataset are grouped into 102 major clusters. We created this page to achieve better visualization for global view. You can view each group, each tissue and each gene by choosing the optional box on the left. Landscape view provides global view on single cell level, Marker list provides marker genes for each cluster. Gene search (Pseudocell) provides global view on pseudo-cell20 level. 3.   Gallery: In the Gallery, you can download the single-cell digital gene expression(DGE) matrix and get information of the cell number and sample source for each data. The results of the clustering analysis with marker genes are also shared on the Gallery. 4.  Search: You can search genes in the sample you selected, the bar chart, feature plot and the location in marker gene table of the gene will be returned. 5.   Run-scHCL: You can upload the Digital gene expression(DGE) matrix of RNA-seq data (scRNA-seq data or bulk RNA-seq data) and the scHCL can help you to identify cell types in your data. The results are showed by interactive heatmap and table in csv format. In heatmap, the row means the defined cell type, the column means the query sample, and the color of block indicates the strength of the correlation. In the result table, Pearson correlation coefficients between query samples (to be identified) and reference cell types are provided. 6.   FAQ: some frequently asked questions are listed on this page. 7.   Contact: Download links for data and contact information for data providers are placed in this page. We also provide message board on this page.
Methods: HCL provided over 700 000 cells from more than 50 human tissues, categorized into 102 clusters. We used ‘Gene search (Pseudocell)’ to provide global view of CXCR4 expression on pseudo-cell level. We used the CELLxGENE tool (RRID:SCR_021059) to show CXCR4 expression, scores of T cell makers, and scores of B cell makers in the UMAP plot.

References:
X. Han et al., Construction of a human cell landscape at single-cell level. Nature 581, 303-309 (2020).
C. Megill et al., cellxgene: a performant, scalable exploration platform for high dimensional sparse matrices. bioRxiv, 2021.2004.2005.438318 (2021).

